A new metrics pipeline (#85)
strimzi/proposals: 063-prometheus-metrics-reporter.md

2. Each component along the pipeline has its own configurations and specificities. For example, since Kafka 3.4.0, it’s possible to disable the JmxReporter for Kafka metrics by setting [auto.include.jmx.reporter](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#brokerconfigs_auto.include.jmx.reporter) to `false`. It is currently not possible to disable `FilteringJmxReporter`. Both jmx_exporter and the built-in reporter offer the flexibility to choose which metrics to collect.
3. The jmx_exporter Java agent supports complex metrics mapping rules. These rules allow renaming metrics and it can make it hard to investigate issues as metrics could have different names. This prevents using metrics like an API, whether this is to build Grafana dashboards or for the operator to rely on metrics.
4. Due to the complex rules, it performs badly when there’s a very large number of metrics due to a lot of topic/partitions.

## Proposal

The proposal is to build metrics reporters that directly exposes metrics via an HTTP endpoint in the Prometheus format. This will be a new project/repository under the Strimzi organization.

Reporters will expose the following configurations:

> - `prometheus.metrics.reporter.listener`: The listener to expose the metrics in the format `http://<HOST>:<PORT>`, or set to `disabled` to not expose an endpoint. If the `<HOST>` part if empty the listener binds to the default interface, if it is set to `0.0.0.0`, the listener binds to all interfaces. If the `<PORT>` part is set to `0`, a random port is picked. Default: `http://:8080`.

Reviewer: it looks weird to me that this configuration, looking for an hostname:port value, could be "disabled". Also what's the point of having a reporter which doesn't expose the metrics via a listener? Should we make it mandatory so not allowing anything which is not hostname:port and avoiding anything else like "disabled"?

Reviewer: Maybe I see why you need it, because of the bridge use case? Let's continue the discussion here or on the comment I made for the bridge, as you prefer :-)

Author: Yes it's because of the bridge.

Reviewer: And isn't it enough to not set  `prometheus.metrics.reporter.listener` parameter instead of setting it to "disabled"?

Author: I think it's important to have a good default value as the goal is to be usable outside of Strimzi too. Also I expect that disabling the endpoint is to be very marginal use case (ie not apply to most users), so it's best to require to explicitly set it to `disabled`.

Reviewer 2: It is not a blocker for me and I can easily live with it as it is -> but I find this a bit strange pattern as well. Especially since you seem to accept values following some pattern (`http://<host>:<port>`) but then a completely different pattern (value `disabled`) is valid as well. What if there is a separate boolean option to enable the listener (e.g. prometheus.metrics.reporter.listener.enable`) that defaults to true? That way, you can have a good default but also perhaps an easier to work with way for disabling it?

Reviewer: Yeah I agree with Jakub. Tbh this change of pattern for the possible values is weird to me. I am for the additional parameter as well for disabling it (which is false by default when not set).

Author: I'm fine with adding a separate configuration to disable the endpoint if you prefer. In the end you'll still need to set one configuration to disable it.

Reviewer: Only thing, it's kind of a "blocker" for me :-P

Reviewer: Thanks Mickael!

```
metricsConfig:
  type: jmxPrometheusExporter
  valueFrom:
    configMapKeyRef:
      name: kafka-metrics
      key: kafka-metrics-config.yml
```

To enable metric reporters, Strimzi users would use a configuration like the following:
```
metricsConfig:
  type: strimziMetricsReporter
  values:
    allowList:
      - "kafka_log.*"
      - "kafka_network.*"
```

Strimzi will only allow users to set the `prometheus.metrics.reporter.allowlist` setting via the `allowList` field. The `prometheus.metrics.reporter.listener` will not be customizable in Strimzi and will be set to `http://:9404`. It also helps to avoid conflicts with the Strimzi Kafka Agent currently using port 8080.

### Handling of non-numeric metrics

Out of all the metrics emitted by Kafka brokers and clients, a few of them have non-numeric values. Prometheus only supports numeric values for metrics. When using jmx_exporter it is possible to write rules that move the non-numeric value to a label. For example we do it in [kafka-connect-metrics](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/main/packaging/examples/metrics/kafka-connect-metrics.yaml#L103-L111) for the `status` metric which has a string value.

> I propose to do this automatically in the reporters. For example a metric named: `kafka.connect:type=connector-task-metrics,connector="{connector}",task="{task}"<>status` with the value `running` will be converted into `kafka_connect_connector_task_metrics_status{connector="heartbeats",task="0",status="running"}` and its value will be set to `1.0`.

Reviewer: I would add just one sentence saying that it's going to expose as many metrics as there are values for the original one. Of course, all metrics will have 0.0 as value. Only one will be 1.0.

Author: I'm not sure I understand your comment. What do you mean by `all metrics will have 0.0 as value. Only one will be 1.0.`?

Reviewer: Ah ok, it makes more sense. Thanks!

3. Later, once ZooKeeper is not supported anymore, we might decide to drop the JMX Exporter support completely.

### strimzi-kafka-oauth

The OAuth plugin exposes the `strimzi.oauth.metric.reporters` configuration to let users specify a metrics reporter. Today the OAuth plugin automatically uses `org.apache.kafka.common.metrics.JmxReporter` if that configuration is not set. To switch to the new reporter, users should set `strimzi.oauth.metric.reporters` to `KafkaPrometheusMetricsReporter`.

Note that directly instantiating metric reporters in the plugin is a workaround as Kafka currently does not provide a way for plugins to register metrics. [KIP-877](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/KIP-877%3A+Mechanism+for+plugins+and+connectors+to+register+metrics), currently in discussion, aims at solving this issue. Once this KIP is accepted, we should update the plugin to use this mechanism.

### strimzi-kafka-bridge

To function, the bridge instantiates Kafka clients. Today it has its own custom mechanism to retrieve metrics from the Kafka clients via JMX and expose them to Prometheus.

> We can update the bridge to use metric reporters to retrieve metrics from Kafka clients and still keep it's own mechanism to expose them to Prometheus (as it's also exposing its own metrics). To switch behavior, I propose introducing a new configuration to the bridge `metricsMode`/`KAFKA_BRIDGE_METRICS_MODE` which would initially default to `jmx` to keep the current behavior. If set to `reporter`, the bridge would set the `metric.reporters` configuration on all Kafka clients it starts to `KafkaPrometheusMetricsReporter` and retrieve their metrics via the Prometheus metrics registry. It should also set `prometheus.metrics.reporter.listener` to `disabled` so `KafkaPrometheusMetricsReporter` instances don't start their own HTTP endpoint.

Reviewer: Now I understand why, maybe, you needed disabled here. Isn't it enough just leaving out the parameter?

# Prometheus Metrics Reporter

> I propose updating the way Kafka metrics are collected by implementing a metrics reporter that directly exposes metrics in the Prometheus format.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
I propose updating the way Kafka metrics are collected by implementing a metrics reporter that directly exposes them in the Prometheus format.
```

PoC: https://github.com/mimaison/prometheus-metrics-reporter

## Current situation

> Efficient monitoring of Kafka relies on the accurate collection metrics data. For historical reasons, Kafka uses two distinct libraries for metrics:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Efficient monitoring of Kafka relies on the accurate collection of metrics data. For historical reasons, Kafka uses two distinct libraries for metrics:
```

> Metrics are a critical aspect of monitoring Kafka. Today, this is the way metrics from Kafka are collected. First Kafka creates metrics objects in memory. For historical reasons Kafka uses two different libraries for metrics:

Author: I pushed a change slightly rewording your suggestion, as the metrics libraries are not really "storing metrics".

> - a home grown library, `org.apache.kafka.common.metrics`. We’ll refer to metrics created via this as _KafkaMetrics_. This is used on the client side and for common metrics on the server side too.
> - Yammer, `com.yammer.metrics.metrics-core`. This library is the predecessor of [Dropwizard](https://metrics.dropwizard.io/). We’ll refer to metrics created via this as _YammerMetrics_. This is only used on the broker side.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `org.apache.kafka.common.metrics` creates _Kafka metrics_ on the client side and common metrics on the server side.
- `com.yammer.metrics.metrics-core`) is the predecessor of [Dropwizard](https://metrics.dropwizard.io/) and creates _Yammer metrics_ on the broker side.
```

Reviewer 4: I think its clearer just to say _Kafka metrics_ and _Yammer metrics_, as has been done elsewhere in the proposal.

Author: I did not apply your suggestion as it includes an extra parenthesis, but I committed a change that uses the same wording.

> For both types of metric, Kafka exposes a reporter interface to expose metrics to monitoring systems. Kafka metrics use [org.apache.kafka.common.metrics.MetricsReporter](https://kafka.apache.org/36/javadoc/org/apache/kafka/common/metrics/MetricsReporter.html) and Yammer metrics use `kafka.metrics.KafkaMetricsReporter` which is not officially part of the public API. Kafka has built-in metrics reporter implementations for JMX for both types.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For both types of metrics, Kafka exposes a reporter interface to expose metrics to monitoring systems. Kafka metrics use [org.apache.kafka.common.metrics.MetricsReporter](https://kafka.apache.org/36/javadoc/org/apache/kafka/common/metrics/MetricsReporter.html) and Yammer metrics use `kafka.metrics.KafkaMetricsReporter` which is not officially part of the public API. Kafka has built-in metrics reporter implementations for JMX for both types.
```

> For each type of metrics, Kafka exposes a reporter interface to expose metrics to monitoring systems. KafkaMetrics uses [org.apache.kafka.common.metrics.MetricsReporter](https://kafka.apache.org/36/javadoc/org/apache/kafka/common/metrics/MetricsReporter.html) and YammerMetrics uses `kafka.metrics.KafkaMetricsReporter` which is not officially part of the public API. Kafka has built-in metrics reporter implementations for JMX for both types.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For both types of metric, Kafka exposes a reporter interface to expose metrics to monitoring systems. Kafka metrics use [org.apache.kafka.common.metrics.MetricsReporter](https://kafka.apache.org/36/javadoc/org/apache/kafka/common/metrics/MetricsReporter.html) and Yammer metrics use `kafka.metrics.KafkaMetricsReporter` which is not officially part of the public API. Kafka has built-in metrics reporter implementations for JMX for both types.
```

At the moment Strimzi relies on these default JMX reporters and uses [jmx_exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/jmx_exporter) which is a Java agent that retrieves metrics via JMX and exposes them over an HTTP endpoint in the Prometheus format. Then Prometheus is configured to scrape that endpoint to retrieve the Kafka metrics.

![Current Situation](./images/063-current.png)

> - `org.apache.kafka.common.metrics.JmxReporter` is the reporter implementation for the Kafka Metrics.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `org.apache.kafka.common.metrics.JmxReporter` is the reporter implementation for the Kafka metrics.
```

> - `org.apache.kafka.server.metrics.FilteringJmxReporter` is the reporter implementation for the Yammer Metrics. It’s named `FilteringJmxReporter` because it extends the JmxReporter class from the Yammer library and adds an option to select the metrics to report.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `org.apache.kafka.server.metrics.FilteringJmxReporter` is the reporter implementation for the Yammer metrics. It’s named `FilteringJmxReporter` because it extends the `JmxReporter` class from the Yammer library and adds an option to select the metrics to report.
```

## Motivation

I propose updating the metrics collection pipeline for the following reasons:

1. The current metrics collection pipeline is pretty convoluted. We have metrics reporters first exposing metrics via JMX before using a Java agent to expose them again via HTTP. Using metrics reporters to directly expose metrics to Prometheus would significantly simplify it by removing JMX from the picture and removing jmx_exporter.

> 2. Each component along the pipeline has its own configurations and specificities. For example, since Kafka 3.4.0, it’s possible to disable the JmxReporter for Kafka metrics by setting [auto.include.jmx.reporter](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#brokerconfigs_auto.include.jmx.reporter) to `false`. It is currently not possible to disable `FilteringJmxReporter`. Both jmx_exporter and the built-in reporter offer the flexibility to choose which metrics to collect.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Each component along the pipeline has its own configurations and specificities. For example, since Kafka 3.4.0, it’s possible to disable the JmxReporter for Kafka metrics by setting [auto.include.jmx.reporter](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#brokerconfigs_auto.include.jmx.reporter) to `false`. Currently, it is not possible to disable `FilteringJmxReporter`. Both jmx_exporter and the built-in reporter offer the flexibility to choose which metrics to collect.
```

> 2. Each component along the pipeline has its own configurations and specificities. For example, since Kafka 3.4.0, it’s possible to disable the JmxReporter for KafkaMetrics by setting [auto.include.jmx.reporter](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#brokerconfigs_auto.include.jmx.reporter) to `false`. It is currently not possible to disable `FilteringJmxReporter`. Also both jmx_exporter and the built-in reporter allow selecting metrics to collect.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Each component along the pipeline has its own configurations and specificities. For example, since Kafka 3.4.0, it’s possible to disable the JmxReporter for Kafka metrics by setting [auto.include.jmx.reporter](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#brokerconfigs_auto.include.jmx.reporter) to `false`. It is currently not possible to disable `FilteringJmxReporter`. Both jmx_exporter and the built-in reporter offer the flexibility to choose which metrics to collect.
```

> 3. The jmx_exporter Java agent supports complex metrics mapping rules. These rules allow renaming metrics and it can make it hard to investigate issues as metrics could have different names. This prevents using metrics like an API, whether this is to build grafana dashboards or for the operator to rely on metrics.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. The jmx_exporter Java agent supports complex metrics mapping rules. These rules allow renaming metrics and it can make it hard to investigate issues as metrics could have different names. This prevents using metrics like an API, whether this is to build Grafana dashboards or for the operator to rely on metrics.
```

4. Due to the complex rules, it performs badly when there’s a very large number of metrics due to a lot of topic/partitions.

## Proposal

The proposal is to build metrics reporters that directly exposes metrics via an HTTP endpoint in the Prometheus format. This will be a new project/repository under the Strimzi organization.

Reporters will expose the following configurations:
- `prometheus.metrics.reporter.listener`: The listener to expose the metrics in the format `http://<HOST>:<PORT>`, or set to `disabled` to not expose an endpoint. If the `<HOST>` part if empty the listener binds to the default interface, if it is set to `0.0.0.0`, the listener binds to all interfaces. If the `<PORT>` part is set to `0`, a random port is picked. Default: `http://:8080`.
- `prometheus.metrics.reporter.allowlist`: A comma separated list of regex patterns to specify the metrics to collect. Default: `.*`. Only metrics matching at least one of the patterns in the list will be emitted.

> The reporters will also export JVM metrics similar to the ones exported by jmx_exporter. These are provided by the [Hotspot exports](io.prometheus.client.hotspot) from the Prometheus Java client.

Author: Good catch! Fixed.

This proposal ignores supporting HTTPS as today Strimzi does not allow configuring it with jmx_exporter. Note that jmx_exporter 0.19.0 added support for HTTPS. If needed we can add it later to the reporters.

This proposal will produce an implementation for each type of metrics reporter.
- `KafkaPrometheusMetricsReporter` usable on brokers (for Kafka metrics) and on Kafka clients (including Connect and Streams)
- `YammerPrometheusMetricsReporter` usable on brokers (for Yammer metrics)

The Prometheus metrics registry is a singleton and the HTTP server will also be a singleton. This will allow applications to start multiple instances of the reporter (for example in applications containing multiple Kafka clients like Streams, Connect), and still collect all metrics via a single HTTP endpoint per JVM.

The reporter for Kafka metrics will be usable outside of Strimzi by applications using Kafka clients. To do so applications will need to set the `metric.reporters` configuration to `KafkaPrometheusMetricsReporter` and set the reporter configurations accordingly for each Kafka client they instantiate.

![Proposal](./images/063-proposal.png)

> Today to enable jmx_exporter, Strimzi users use:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Strimzi users currently enable jmx_exporter with the following configuration:
```

```
metricsConfig:
  type: jmxPrometheusExporter
  valueFrom:
    configMapKeyRef:
      name: kafka-metrics
      key: kafka-metrics-config.yml
```

> To enable metric reporters, they will instead use this for example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To enable metric reporters, Strimzi users would use a configuration like the following:
```

```
metricsConfig:
  type: strimziMetricsReporter
  values:
    allowList:
      - "kafka_log.*"
      - "kafka_network.*"
```

Strimzi will only allow users to set the `prometheus.metrics.reporter.allowlist` setting via the `allowList` field. The `prometheus.metrics.reporter.listener` will not be customizable in Strimzi and will be set to `http://:9404`. It also helps to avoid conflicts with the Strimzi Kafka Agent currently using port 8080.

### Handling of non-numeric metrics

> Out of all the metrics emitted by Kafka brokers and clients, a few of them have non-numeric values. Prometheus only supports numeric values for metrics. When using jmx_exporter it is possible to write rules that move the non-numeric value to a label. For example we do it in [kafka-connect-metrics](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/main/packaging/examples/metrics/kafka-connect-metrics.yaml#L103-L111) for the `status` metrics which has a string value.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Out of all the metrics emitted by Kafka brokers and clients, a few of them have non-numeric values. Prometheus only supports numeric values for metrics. When using jmx_exporter it is possible to write rules that move the non-numeric value to a label. For example we do it in [kafka-connect-metrics](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/main/packaging/examples/metrics/kafka-connect-metrics.yaml#L103-L111) for the `status` metric which has a string value.
```

### kafka-quotas-plugin

This plugin creates metrics by using the Yammer metrics library. `com.yammer.metrics.Metrics` registers metrics in the default Yammer registry and automatically exports metrics via JMX.

Like strimzi-kafka-oauth, this plugin should be updated once [KIP-877](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/KIP-877%3A+Mechanism+for+plugins+and+connectors+to+register+metrics) is available in Kafka. 

In the meantime, `YammerPrometheusMetricsReporter` will retrieve metrics from both the Kafka Yammer registry and the default Yammer registry to get all Yammer metrics.

## Compatibility

> Differences with jmx_exporter metrics:

Reviewer 4: I'm not clear what I'm seeing in this section. Are we listing the limitations with the proposed approach ("the reporter") against using the jmx_exporter to collect metrics?

Author: This section lists the differences in the metrics that end up in Prometheus using jmx_exporter and the reporters. 

While the outputs are pretty close, there are some differences and I wanted to highlight them all. It's not really that the output from one is superior to the other, they are just different.

Differences with jmx_exporter metrics:

- The reporter does not compute 1/5/15 minute rate, mean, max, min, stddev metrics. It's preferable to compute them in Prometheus instead of on the client side.
- The reporter is missing the `kafka_server_app_info_starttimems` metric with the client/broker id label. (Due to [KAFKA-15186](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/KAFKA-15186))

Assuming jmx_exporter does not have any rules, this is the other main metric change:

> - With the reporter, the `name` field is put directly in the metric name. For example this MBean, `kafka.server:type=ZooKeeperClientMetrics,name=ZooKeeperRequestLatencyMs` with the `Count` attribute is converted to `kafka_server_zookeeperclientmetrics_zookeeperrequestlatencyms_count`. By default jmx_exporter keeps the name as a label, `kafka_server_zookeeperclientmetrics_count{name="ZooKeeperRequestLatencyMs",}`.

Reviewer 5: Why does the reporter have this behaviour?

Author: Two reasons:
- So metrics names emitted by the reporter are very similar to the names emitted by jmx_exporter with the configuration file both [Strimzi](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/main/examples/metrics/kafka-metrics.yaml) and [Prometheus](https://github.com/prometheus/jmx_exporter/blob/main/example_configs/kafka-2_0_0.yml) provide
- I find the names with this format more readable

> - Kafka exposes some non-numeric metrics. Prometheus only supports numeric values for metrics. Using jmx_exporter it's possible with rules to move the values into labels and still retrieve them in Prometheus. With this proposal non-numeric metrics will be ignored and not exposed. I plan to raise a KIP in Kafka to provide alternative to non-numeric metrics. For example there is already [KIP-972](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/KIP-972%3A+Add+the+metric+of+the+current+running+version+of+kafka) in progress to address some of them.

Reviewer 4: I thought we were moving non-numerics to labels (as in Handling of non-numeric metrics section)?

Author: Yes this paragraph should be removed now. Done

If we also remove the values, doing a diff highlights the following differences:

- The JMX metrics only exist with jmx_exporter.
    ```
    jmx_config_reload_failure_created
    jmx_config_reload_failure_total
    jmx_config_reload_success_created
    jmx_config_reload_success_total
    jmx_exporter_build_info{version="0.19.0",name="jmx_prometheus_javaagent",}
    jmx_scrape_cached_beans
    jmx_scrape_duration_seconds
    jmx_scrape_error
    ```
    This is expected as JMX is not used with the reporter.

- With JMX a number of `java_lang` metrics are emitted. These are not retrieved by Prometheus Hotspot exports.

- The `PerSec` suffix is removed by jmx_exporter rules so a few metrics have slightly different names, for example:
    ```
    kafka_controller_controllerstats_uncleanleaderelections_total         # jmx_exporter
    kafka_controller_controllerstats_uncleanleaderelectionspersec_total   # reporter

    kafka_network_requestmetrics_errors_total{request="UpdateMetadata",error="NONE",}        # jmx_exporter
    kafka_network_requestmetrics_errorspersec_total{request="UpdateMetadata",error="NONE",}  # reporter
    ```

>     This is due these [mapping rules](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/main/examples/metrics/kafka-metrics.yaml#L136-L150). 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    This is due to [mapping rules](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/main/examples/metrics/kafka-metrics.yaml#L136-L150). 
```

- An underscore `_` is added in front of the `percent` suffix by jmx_exporter rules so a few metrics have slightly different names, for example:
    ```
    kafka_network_processor_idle_percent{networkProcessor="0",} # jmx_exporter
    kafka_network_processor_idlepercent{networkProcessor="0",}  # reporter
    ```

>     This is due these [mapping rules](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/main/examples/metrics/kafka-metrics.yaml#L127-L135). 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    This is due to [mapping rules](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/main/examples/metrics/kafka-metrics.yaml#L127-L135). 
```

    kafka_network_acceptor_acceptorblockedpercent_total{listener="PLAINTEXT",} # reporter
    ```
    Prometheus recommends using the `total` suffix and it's actually automatically injected by the Java library. The example jmx_exporter rules correctly replace the suffix in most metrics (like in the metrics mentioned above with `PerSec`) but they don't match all metrics hence the inconsistency.

- Some labels are wrapped twice in quotes by jmx_exporter
    ```
    # jmx_exporter
    kafka_log_logcleanermanager_uncleanable_bytes{logDirectory="\"/tmp/kafka-logs\"",}
    kafka_log_logcleanermanager_uncleanable_partitions_count{logDirectory="\"/tmp/kafka-logs\"",}
    kafka_log_logmanager_logdirectoryoffline{logDirectory="\"/tmp/kafka-logs\"",}
    # reporter
    kafka_log_logcleanermanager_uncleanable_bytes{logDirectory="/tmp/kafka-logs",}
    kafka_log_logcleanermanager_uncleanable_partitions_count{logDirectory="/tmp/kafka-logs",}
    kafka_log_logmanager_logdirectoryoffline{logDirectory="/tmp/kafka-logs",}
    ```
    I'm guessing this is done to support paths containing special characters. In the context of Strimzi I don't think this is necessary.

> In terms of performance, in my very limited testing the reporter is much faster than jmx_exporter. This is not a benchmark or rigorous by any means, I've simply been running `time curl --head http://localhost:{PORT}/metrics` against a single broker on my laptop with both the reporter (on port 8080) and jmx_exporter (on port 9090) running. Since each partition has metrics, I used the number of partition as a proxy to increase the total number of metrics.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In terms of performance, in my very limited testing the reporter is much faster than jmx_exporter. This is not a benchmark or rigorous by any means, I've simply been running `time curl --head http://localhost:{PORT}/metrics` against a single broker on my laptop with both the reporter (on port 8080) and jmx_exporter (on port 9090) running. Since each partition has metrics, I used the number of partitions as a proxy to increase the total number of metrics.
```

| # of partitions | jmx_exporter | reporter |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 600ms | 100ms |
| 500 | 900ms | 300ms |
| 1000 | 1300ms | 400ms |
| 2000 | 2000ms | 800ms | 

## Rejected alternatives

> - I considered using [Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/) in the reporter. The benefit is that it would allow exporting metrics to different monitoring systems. The issue is that it requires converting the Kafka and Yammer metrics into the Micrometer format and then have Micrometer export that to Prometheus. As each metric library has its own characteristics, chaining several conversions can lead to slightly different semantics. Finally Prometheus seems to be the leading monitoring solution in the Kubernetes ecosystem, and I expect most other monitoring tools to integrate with it. For these reasons I decided to not use Micrometer. Ideally Kafka would export its metrics via Micrometer. It's something I've started to explore but it is definitively a very difficult task.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- I considered using [Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/) in the reporter. The benefit is that it would allow exporting metrics to different monitoring systems. The issue is that it requires converting the Kafka and Yammer metrics into the Micrometer format and then have Micrometer export that to Prometheus. As each metric library has its own characteristics, chaining several conversions can lead to slightly different semantics. Finally Prometheus seems to be the leading monitoring solution in the Kubernetes ecosystem, and I expect most other monitoring tools to integrate with it. For these reasons, I decided not to use Micrometer. Ideally Kafka would export its metrics via Micrometer. It's something I've started to explore but it is definitively a very difficult task.
```

> - I considered using [Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/) in the reporter. The benefit is that it would allow exporting metrics to different monitoring systems. The issue is that it requires converting the Kafka and Yammer metrics into the Micrometer format and then have Micrometer export that to Prometheus. As each metric library has its own characteristics, chaining several conversions can lead to slightly different semantics. Finally Prometheus seems to be the leading monitoring solution in the Kubernetes ecosystem, and I expect most other monitoring tools to integrate this it. For these reasons I decided to not use Micrometer. Ideally Kafka would export its metrics via Micrometer. It's something I've started to explore but it is definitively a very difficult task.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- I considered using [Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/) in the reporter. The benefit is that it would allow exporting metrics to different monitoring systems. The issue is that it requires converting the Kafka and Yammer metrics into the Micrometer format and then have Micrometer export that to Prometheus. As each metric library has its own characteristics, chaining several conversions can lead to slightly different semantics. Finally Prometheus seems to be the leading monitoring solution in the Kubernetes ecosystem, and I expect most other monitoring tools to integrate this way. For these reasons I decided to not use Micrometer. Ideally Kafka would export its metrics via Micrometer. It's something I've started to explore but it is definitively a very difficult task.
```

Author: I meant to write `integrate with it`. I'll push an update.

Author: Done
